Add Avatar and ImageInput components (#922)
sumup-oss/circuit-ui: packages/circuit-ui/components/ImageInput/ImageInput.docs.mdx

import { Status, Props, Story } from '../../../../.storybook/components';

# ImageInput

<Status.Stable />

The ImageInput component allows users to upload images. It can be used on its own or as part of a form.

<Story id="forms-imageinput--base" />

<Props />

## Usage guidelines

Refer to the `Stateful` component story for a simplified code usage example.

> - **Do** use the onChange callback to immediately trigger an image upload when the user has selected one, even when the component is being used as part of a form (it will make form submission faster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Do** use the `onChange` callback to immediately trigger an image upload when the user has selected one, even when the component is being used as part of a form. The faster form submission adds to a delightful user experience.
```

- **Do not** use the ImageInput component if the image is read-only for the user. Instead, use the visual component from the ImageInput's `component` prop by itself, for example the [Avatar](Components/Avatar).

## Input states

### Existing image

When an `src` prop is provided, the ImageInput renders a "Clear" icon instead of the "Add" icon. It also forwards the prop to the visual component passed as a prop. Clicking the "Clear" icon clears the input.

<Story id="forms-imageinput--with-image" />

### Invalid

When an image upload fails, set the `invalid` prop to true to render invalid styles, and show the user a clear and concise error message using the `validationHint` prop.

<Story id="forms-imageinput--invalid" />

## Custom component

The ImageInput has drop-in support for the [Avatar](Components/Avatar) component as a visual element.

> However, where the end result image needs to be in a landscape view, a custom component with different dimensions can be used to reflect the final image's aspect ratio.

Reviewer: That's quite a specific use case — there are other reasons why someone would want to use a custom component. Let's keep this generic.

Author: This was from the Figma docs, but I agree, will make it more generic 🙂

There are some caveats with this approach:

- A custom placeholder will also need to be provided to match the custom aspect ratio. Refer to the `CustomComponent` story for a code example.

> - Currently, the `ImageInput` only supports rectangular components with a fixed border-radius, in order to correctly apply state-specific styles.

Reviewer: Does this mean the visual component needs to have a specific border radius? I thought these styles were applied by the ImageInput?

Author: Yes 😕 this is because of the state-specific styles like the focus or hover styles. They're applied by the ImageInput in pseudo-elements, which need to be given the same border-radius as the visual component.

This would be fixed by using `filter: brightness()` instead of pseudo-elements, but other than this I haven't thought of other solutions with good browser support

Author: C.f. for example this occurrence in the overlay styles (which handle the different shades of grey overlays for the hover/active states):

https://github.com/sumup-oss/circuit-ui/pull/922/files#diff-6d71d84fd0ca418fcb16199c540e16e8f7a35ffbbaea54fa884d0dbf56320502R149

Reviewer: Ah, so the visual component can have a smaller/no border radius (in that case it'll be clipped) but not a larger one (because the overlay will overflow)?

Author: Yes 👍

<Status.Stable />

The ImageInput component allows users to upload images, through drag and drop (desktop only), and local file browsing. It can be used on its own or as part of a form.

<Story id="components-imageinput--base" />

<Props />

## Usage guidelines

- **Do** use the Avatar component if the image input is read-only for the user.

> - **Do not** …

Reviewer: A "Do" should be about the component itself, this sounds more like a "Don't" to me:

> 

```suggestion
- **Do** ...
- **Do not** use the ImageInput component if the image is read-only for the user.
```

Author: Done in 6817573
